What's up everybody welcome back to my laboratory where safety is number one priority I put this gadget to the test a while ago, It makes super clear ice balls I'm about to show to you all we have to do is fill it up with water, stick it in the refrigerator and freeze this water from top to bottom and that way the ice balls are completely super clear ice balls you can ever make And they are like huge ice balls So, I thought to myself, Is it possible to start fire with ice? Well, lets find out! Ice balls are big spheres, so it's turning into magnifying glass. Let's see if it works. So what I'm going to do is pull this out like this Oh man! It's every time it's stuck pretty good in there. Boom! And look, there is ice in there too. And now lets open this up. Nice, look at that! Oooh, Hugo want one? Wow, looks like one I didn't put enough water. But this one, right now they are really frosted up. But, what we are going to do is just... hold it like this and let it it melt a little bit, and it is going to be super clear ice balls here Hugo, you can lick this one, if anything. Hugo, yea! Hugo, you can lick this one! Lick this one! Not- oh he likes the ice balls! its hot outside get all the frost out, hehe. but yea let me show you in a minute what it looks like! stop it! don't lick those ones! I'm gonna run them under water for a little bit, and then they are gonna be even more clearer so, let me do that and come back and show you what it looks like. stop it! you see after Iet it it sit, and get that frost out of the ice, its really really clear And it looks like magnifying glass as you can see Again I got my coconut husk and some char-cloth, let's do this! I'm going to need char-cloth right here let me show you what it looks like, I'm going to set it on a five, as you see, it zooms in So, that's what we want, it looks just like a lens you see, it's getting hot Hugo, stop it! You're not helping! Stop it, Hugo! No! Oh yeah! It gets really hot! Let's try this out! So I'm going to set it like this... Woah, look at it! It's already starting to smoke You see? Oh yeah. And look at that! we started a fire with the ice! How epic is that? You see how well it's burning? Boom. Starting a fire with a piece of ice Very epic. Who would have thought guys, you can start a fire with a piece of ice? How amazing is that? Look at how clear this ice is and it definitely works like a magnifying glass because it's like a sphere It's amazing,  I love that I have never started a fire with a piece of ice in my life so now I could put that check mark on the bucket list In fact it was so much fun, I'm going to try it one more time actually It's too windy guys, I have to wait 'til wind calms down because I don't have those microphone uhh like fluff stuff Cause you can hear how bad it is Man, every time I want to do a video, there is something going wrong Ok, the wind is going down There you go The easiest way to start a fire when you using friction or sun is with this char-cloth it makes it much easier to get it going; it's dark, it absorb the sun a lot and it's easier than other things and it's really easy and cheap to make it I'll put a link a link in description how to do it. So I'm going put this char-cloth right inside of some leaves, grass or I'm using coconut husk So I'm going to try to do this again So putting ice cube like this, and just gonna concentrate the sun right on this Oh yeah, I can see it's smoke already you see guys? just hold it uhh and it's starting to smoke Hold this piece of ice concentrate it right on the right on this, char-cloth and it's going to start smoking pretty fast because the char-cloth burns super easy I hope you can see it smoking a lot let me close this If you're holding it and start blowing and we start the fire awesome you see it's burning right now wow two times in a row starting the fire of course it needs to be really sunny out here you see there is no much clouds But I really like this trick definitely pretty amazing that you can start fire with ice I love that gadget also; look how clear that ice it makes it's just amazing K hugo I got leftover ice for you it's hot right now so he likes it You can bite into it I don't mind Here, here you go. Have fun He wants to bite it but he can't what happens it rolls away from you? oh my gosh he's so cute Alright guys that's pretty much it! Hopefully you enjoyed this video and if you did, please give this video a thumbs up Also, let me know what do you think in comments below follow me on my second channel, links in description and I'll see you next time! 
