I think a lot of people, when they use
lighter fluid, they want to douse
everything and they want a big flaming
inferno and they think that's the only way to
get these things going. But that's really not
the case, it's kind of dangerous, it smells bad,
and it's crazy. And I've actually
singed my beard before, which is not cool. How you doing,
my name is J Pereira. I'm your neighborhood
grill enthusiast. I'm gonna show you how to
properly light a charcoal grill without any lighter
fluid or any tricks or anything like that. First thing you want to
do is you want to get down below your charcoal
grate, so you get down to the bottom of
your grill here. So, I'm gonna take
a couple of sheets from the local paper. I like to wad them up,
not too tight, not too loose, just a
good ball around cuz you need some air flowing to
keep that stuff going. Now, I'm gonna create
another little pile of paper here on top. Add some twigs. You just wanna about
three or four inches, just some dry twigs
are fine around the yard. You don't have to
be fancy about it. Today, we're gonna
be using standard charcoal briquettes. I like to kind of
surround my fire with a good amount
of briquettes, kind of creating a little
bit of a pyramid, but you don't wanna smother
it cuz you still wanna get some air in there. Once you get everything
in place, you want to light the paper that's
underneath first. I like to light around
a couple spots, make sure you get
a good going. This is a pretty
healthy fire. It's good to have
the flames come up above the charcoal
because then you know you're definitely
getting good contact. Again, you just want a
couple of these things to start getting ignited,
start heating up, and once that happens, the
rest will follow suit. I don't know the science
behind all this stuff, but I know that it works. So that's science
enough for me. I think one of the
biggest mistakes a lot of people have, and why a
lot of people like to use lighter fluid is cuz
they don't have patience. But even with lighter
fluid, it still takes 15, 20 minutes to get
these charcoals going. At this point you
can see we have really hot fire going
on right in the middle. This is where I'm going
to rearrange these guys. Some of these ones
on the outside that aren't going as well. I'm going to
start putting them in the middle. Please use tongs or
something. A gloved hand. Don't grab these things. I see some people
do some dumb shit. If you feel like
you're gonna need more briquettes, now's
a good time to actually add some, as well. That's a hot ass
looking fire. It takes, generally,
about 20 minutes before you have a good
cook fire going. That's when all
these briquettes are gray and ashy. No, we're in
a good place here. This is gonna be a great
fire for cooking. Just gonna move
these guys aside, kind of divide it
down the middle. And put the top
grid back on. So there you go, that's
how you properly start a charcoal grill with
no lighter fluid and just stuff you got
around the house. I just became
that guy like, whenever I went places, nobody knew how
to light a grill, nobody knew that shit, so I always ended up
going to parties, and the next thing you know, I'm just hanging out
by the fucking grill. 
