- Hey everyone, I'm Chef Tom
with All Things Barbecue, and today I want to show you
how to build and maintain a fire in an offset smoker. Now the offset smoker is
a totally different animal than any other kind of smoker. It requires some knowledge and patience, but with the right
information and a little time, you can master the offset
in just a handful of cooks. The number one thing that
we see people struggle with is building and maintaining
a fire in the offset cooker. So what we're going to do
today is break it down, give you a few simple guidelines to make it easier for you no matter what brand
of cooker you're using. One thing to note is that a pit like this Yoder Smokers Loaded
Wichita is going to maintain and hold temperatures far better than a thinner-gauged
offset from a big box store. But the same rules apply to both. We'll start our pit with two chimneys of nice oak lump charcoal. This will provide us with a
clean hot base for our fire. This is a key step in building
and maintaining a fire. Don't skimp on your coal bed, or you'll be firing up
more chimneys mid cook to keep things running smoothly. As this charcoal comes up to temperature on the far side of the firebox, place two split logs to
preheat on the front side here. We're using Cattleman's
Grill kiln dried split wood, and we always recommend a
kiln dried wood in an offset because the consistency
and the moisture content will mean a clean burning log that won't put out heavy white smoke. Now I'm going to move
these logs to the fire and let this continue to
come up to temperature. The reason we build the
fire on the backside is so during the cook when
you need to open that door, the fire is opposite the door so it retains some of the heat, and you don't need to
reach across a flame. Once the pit is up to temperature, we'll maintain the fire by
rolling over a preheated log, one at a time. And that's another great
perk to having the fire on the far side of the firebox. It allows us to preheat
another log in the box. A warmed log is going
to combust much faster, limiting that harsh white
smoke that a cold log puts off when it first catches fire. Once we have these logs on, we'll leave the door cracked
just a bit to get the heat up. But as soon as we start getting close to our target temp of 250 degrees, we're going to shut the door down, open the butterfly to about one third open making sure our chimney cap is half open, and start to work on
dialing in our temperature. Now every log is different and the weather and the wind and other factors are going to play into how your pit is operating. So you'll need to make adjustments
each time you're cooking to make sure you're burning a clean fire. Now as a general rule we try
not to run that stack cap any more than halfway closed, or you risk producing
some acrid white smoke. Just remember as you're
getting to know your pit, you want to make small adjustments. If you open it up too much you're going to shoot
that temperature sky high, and you'll be scrambling to
get your fire under control. Now that our pit is settled
into our desired temperature, we'll take a peek at the fire and see if we need to move a log over. In this case we're down to our coal base, so we'll move our preheated
log onto the fire. Notice how quickly the log ignites. This would not be the case for the log that hasn't been warmed up. We'll place another log in the front of the firebox to warm up, and maintain our pit as necessary. This Yoder Smokers Loaded
Wichita runs its smoking temps with a new log every 45
minutes to an hour on average. We hope this video helps
you out as you learn to master your offset smoker, or just as a refresher for those of you who have been smoking offset for years. Thanks so much for watching. If you enjoyed the
video, please subscribe. If you have any questions or comments, or there's any other tips and techniques I can help you out with, let me know in the comments
section down below. For more recipes, tips and techniques, head over to thesauce.atbbq.com. All Things Barbecue. Where barbecue legends are made. 
